```{important}
This is an [integrative](integrative) 2x badge. 
```


1. Try a new IDE and review it in {index}`newide.md`. Your review should be 3 secictions: Summary, Evaluation, and Reflection. Summary should be 1-3 sentences of your conclusions. Evaluation should be a detailed evaluation according to your group's criteria and one other group's criteria. In Reflection, reflect on your experience: What is easy? hard?  What could you apply from the ones you already use?  Were there features you had trouble finding? 
2. Preview the [Stack Overflow Developer Survey](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2023/#technology) Technology section parts that are about tools. Create {index}`dev_insights.md` with 3-5 bullet points for discussion.  These can be facts you found most interesting or questions you have based on the results (it can be clarifying or deeper questions)
3. Choose two languages from the [desired admired list](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2023/#technology-admired-and-desired).  This could be a highly admired and least desired; it could be one with a small gap and one with a large gap. Read a few posts about each language and try to figure out why it is/not admired or desired. Summarize your findings.  Include links to all of the posts you read in a section titled `## Sources` in your markdown file. For each source, make a bulleted list with some notes about the author's background and any limitations that might put on the scope of their opinions. (for example, a data scientists's opinion on languages is very valuable for data science, but less for app development) Add this to your kwl repo in `language_love_dread.md`. 