- [ ] Create {index}`tagtypes.md`  with the template below. Include an experiment that shows which if either type of tag creates a new git object. There are two types, try creating one of each a lightwight tag (provide only the tag name- what we did in class) and an annotated (provide a name and a message with `-m`).  
- [ ] Determine how  many of the tags in the course website are annotated vs lightweight using. (You may need to use `git pull --tags` in your clone of the course website)

```
# Tags

<!-- short defintion/description in your own words of what a tag is and what it is for -->


## Comparing tag types 

<!-- include your experiment terminal history  and interpretation -->

## Inspecting tags

Course website tags by type: 
- annoted:
- lightweight: 
<!-- include lists of tags for each type -->
```


- [ ] Calculate the maximum number of git objects that a repo can have without requiring you to use more than the minimum number of characters to refer to any object (the minimum is 4. That's usually enough for us to use something like `cat-file` command, `git tag` or even `git checkout`) and include that number in  {index}`gitcounts_scenarios.md`  with a title `# Git counts`. Describe 3 scenarios that would get you to that number of objects in terms of what types of objects would exist. For example, what is the maximum number of commits you could have without exceeding that number? How could you get to that number of objects in the fewest number of commits? What might be a typical way to get there? Assume normal git use with porcelain commands, not atypical cases with plubming commands. *If you get stuck, outline what you know and then request a review.* 
- [ ] Read about the Learn more about the [SHA-1 collision attach](https://shattered.io/) 
- [ ] Learn more about how git is working on changing from SHA-1 to SHA-256 and answer the transition questions below {index}`gittransition.md`


# gittransition
```
# transition questions

1. Why make the switch? (in detail, not just *an attack*)
2. What impact will the switch have on how git works?
3. Which developers will have the most work to do because of the switch?
```
