notes/2025-01-28.md, before:

---
keyword: logistics
conceptual: 
    - github flow with issues
practical:
    - syllabus
social:
    - working together and building common vocab
activity:
    - set up to work offline together, create a folder
---

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}
# More orientation

Today we will: 
- continue getting familiar with the structure of GitHub
- clarify more how the course will flow
- practice with new vocabulary

*Last class was a lot of new information, today we will reinforce that mostly, and add only a little* 


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}
## Warm up

1. Navigate to your KWL repo 
2. Find the issues tab
3. Open the prepare-2025-01-28 issue and discuss the questions with your classmates at your table
4. If you have issues that currently say Error: not found (prepare 01-30 and practice 01-28)

*hint: my KWL repo URL is: `https://github.com/compsys-progtools/spring25-kwl-AymanBx`


+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

What do you associate "learn new vocabulary" with?


+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

Note: it is actually *always* the first step of learning, or joining a community. 



+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

What are GitHub issues for?

- [x] bug reporting and tracking
- [ ] proposing changes to the code by comparing two branches
- [ ] discussing things tangentially related to the code 


+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

What are GitHub issues for in our class?

- [ ] discussing things tangentially related to the code
- [ ] proposing changes to the code by comparing two branches
- [x] Assignment or issue that needs to be fixed in out repo/project 

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

What are Pull Requests for? 

- [ ] bug reporting and tracking
- [x] proposing changes to the code by comparing two branches
- [ ] discussing things tangentially related to the code 

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

What are Pull Requests for in our class? 

- [ ] bug reporting and tracking
- [x] Request an instructor to view my work and approve it or comment on it
- [ ] discussing things tangentially related to the code 
  

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

Go to you PR tab



+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}
What is an experience badge?
- [ ] A way to prove I was in class (take attendance)
- [ ] A program that means at the end of the semester I get a medal for each one I have
- [x] A way to remind my future self and show my instructor what I've learned from class and ask questions 


+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}
### How do we work with experience badges
Checklist:
1. Merge prepare work into this PR
1. Link prepare issue to this PR
1. Complete experience report
1. Add activity completion evidence per notes



+++{"lesson_part": "site"}

We fixed the `forgottenexperience.yml` file and then [ran it manually](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/managing-workflow-runs-and-deployments/managing-workflow-runs/manually-running-a-workflow).




+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

## Making up for action issue last week

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}
Yesterday we fixed the issue with our actions and were able to run the Forgotten badge action

What date did you make your experience badge for?


+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}
1. Date is supposed to be 2025-01-23
1. Redo and copy the content from the old one




+++{"lesson_part": "site"}
Then we edited the file it created to add a title on the line with one `#` (should be line 10) uisng the 3 dots menu in the top right of the file on the `files changed` tab of the PR. 

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}



+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

Which of the following is true? 
_hint: look at your experience badge from yesterday (and chat with neighbors)_

- [ ] once a PR is open you cannot add commits to either branch involved
- [ ] once a PR is open if you add commits to the proposing branch, you have to open a new PR
- [x] once a PR is open if you add commits to the proposing branch, they are visible in the existing PR


### Remember 
Your experience pull request (badge) already had a changed file in it
And then you edited the file again to answer the existing prompts



+++{"lesson_part": "site"}

```{note}

When you add more commits to a branch that has a PR, it automatically updates the PR. 
```


+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

### Where does this file exist?


+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}
Find the message that says ```github-actions wants to merge 1 commit into main from experience-<somenumber>```


+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}
### What does this experience-<number> represent?

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}
### How do I know the location of the file?


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

note, here we are learning *by example* and then *synthesizing* that into more concrete facts. 



+++{"lesson_part": "main"}
**my goal is to teach you to get better at learning in that way, bc it is what employers will expect**

To do this:
- I set up opportunities for you to *do* the things that give you the opportunity
- highlight important facts about what just happened
- ask you questions to examine what just happened


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

This is why attendance/participation is a big part of your grade. 

Experience badges are evidence of having learned. 

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

There is a [time breakdown](https://compsys-progtools.github.io/spring2025/syllabus/schedule.html#recommended-workload-distribution) in the syllabus that suggests and recommends a good way to distribute your time in the semester for the class. 


Take a minute to think about how you use your time and what that breakdown means for how you will plan. 


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}


Then we will use the tools to examine the field of Computer Science top to bottom (possibly out of order).



+++{"lesson_part": "main"}




### Programming is Collaborative



There are two very common types of collaboration
- code review (working independently and then reviewing)
- pair programming (sitting together and discussing while writing)


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}


We are going to build your skill in the *code review* model.  This means you need to collaborate, but collaboration in school tends to be more stressful than it needs to. If students have different goals or motivation levels it can create conflict.  So there will be some chances for collaboration where people can show up at the level they want without impacting others.  

You can also do build badges collaboratively, for a closer collaboration, but those are your choice. 


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

## GitHub Actions Tab  

GitHub allows us to run scripts within our repos, the feature is called GitHub Actions and the individual items are called workflows.  

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}
![screen shot of my actions page](https://github.com/compsys-progtools/spring2025/blob/main/img/gh-actions.png)

*this should be different from yours, because I tested things in mine before making your PRs*

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

On my actions page, in the screenshot above, how many **successful workflow runs** are shown? 

- [ ] 4
- [ ] 5
- [x] 3

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

On my actions page, in the screenshot above, how many **total workflow runs** are shown? 

- [x] 4
- [ ] 5
- [ ] 3

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}
On my actions page, in the screenshot above, how many  workflows are **available to run**? 

- [ ] 4
- [x] 7
- [ ] 5

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

Your time to practice:
1. Navigate to your actions tab
2. Run the "Create About (use only once)" Action. 




+++{"lesson_part": "site","meta_type":"evidence"}

You should have:
- fixed action files
- Labs issues closed
- experience report for 2025-01-23


## Prepare for next class 

```{include} ../_prepare/2025-01-30.md
```

## Badges

`````{tab-set}
````{tab-item} Review
```{include} ../_review/2025-01-28.md
```

````

````{tab-item} Practice
```{include} ../_practice/2025-01-28.md
```
````
`````


## Questions after class

Commit message:

Some typos and fixes in second lecture notes

notes/2025-01-28.md, after:


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}
# More orientation

Today we will: 
- continue getting familiar with the structure of GitHub
- clarify more how the course will flow
- practice with new vocabulary

*Last class was a lot of new information, today we will reinforce that mostly, and add only a little* 


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}
## Warm up

1. Navigate to your KWL repo 
2. Find the issues tab
3. Open the prepare-2025-01-28 issue and discuss the questions with your classmates at your table
4. If you have issues that currently say Error: not found (prepare 01-30 and practice 01-28)

*hint: my KWL repo URL is: `https://github.com/compsys-progtools/spring25-kwl-AymanBx`


+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

What do you associate "learn new vocabulary" with?


+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

Note: it is actually *always* the first step of learning, or joining a community. 



+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

What are GitHub issues for?

- [x] bug reporting and tracking
- [ ] proposing changes to the code by comparing two branches
- [ ] discussing things tangentially related to the code 


+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

What are GitHub issues for in our class?

- [ ] discussing things tangentially related to the code
- [ ] proposing changes to the code by comparing two branches
- [x] Assignment or issue that needs to be fixed in out repo/project 

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

What are Pull Requests for? 

- [ ] bug reporting and tracking
- [x] proposing changes to the code by comparing two branches
- [ ] discussing things tangentially related to the code 

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

What are Pull Requests for in our class? 

- [ ] bug reporting and tracking
- [x] Request an instructor to view my work and approve it or comment on it
- [ ] discussing things tangentially related to the code 
  

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

Go to you PR tab



+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}
What is an experience badge?
- [ ] A way to prove I was in class (take attendance)
- [ ] A program that means at the end of the semester I get a medal for each one I have
- [x] A way to remind my future self and show my instructor what I've learned from class and ask questions 


+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}
## How do we work with experience badges
Checklist:
1. Merge prepare work into this PR
1. Link prepare issue to this PR
1. Complete experience report
1. Add activity completion evidence per notes



+++{"lesson_part": "site"}

We fixed the `forgottenexperience.yml` file and then [ran it manually](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/managing-workflow-runs-and-deployments/managing-workflow-runs/manually-running-a-workflow).




+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

## Making up for action issue last week

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}
Yesterday we fixed the issue with our actions and were able to run the Forgotten badge action

What date did you make your experience badge for?


+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}
1. Date is supposed to be 2025-01-23
1. Redo and copy the content from the old one




+++{"lesson_part": "site"}
Then we edited the file it created to add a title on the line with one `#` (should be line 10) uisng the 3 dots menu in the top right of the file on the `files changed` tab of the PR. 

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}



+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

Which of the following is true? 
_hint: look at your experience badge from yesterday (and chat with neighbors)_

- [ ] once a PR is open you cannot add commits to either branch involved
- [ ] once a PR is open if you add commits to the proposing branch, you have to open a new PR
- [x] once a PR is open if you add commits to the proposing branch, they are visible in the existing PR


### Remember 
Your experience pull request (badge) already had a changed file in it
And then you edited the file again to answer the existing prompts



+++{"lesson_part": "site"}

```{note}

When you add more commits to a branch that has a PR, it automatically updates the PR. 
```


+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

### Where does this file exist?


+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}
Find the message that says ```github-actions wants to merge 1 commit into main from experience-<somenumber>```


+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}
### What does this experience-<number> represent?
``` 
This is a branch kf your repo that has one file that is new (different from the main branch where that file is missing).
This file is the experience report that you are asked to fill out after every lecture
```

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}
### How do I know the location of the file?


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

note, here we are learning *by example* and then *synthesizing* that into more concrete facts. 



+++{"lesson_part": "main"}
**my goal is to teach you to get better at learning in that way, bc it is what employers will expect**

To do this:
- I set up opportunities for you to *do* the things that give you the opportunity
- highlight important facts about what just happened
- ask you questions to examine what just happened


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

This is why attendance/participation is a big part of your grade. 

Experience badges are evidence of having learned. 

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

There is a [time breakdown](https://compsys-progtools.github.io/spring2025/syllabus/schedule.html#recommended-workload-distribution) in the syllabus that suggests and recommends a good way to distribute your time in the semester for the class. 


Take a minute to think about how you use your time and what that breakdown means for how you will plan. 


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}


Then we will use the tools to examine the field of Computer Science top to bottom (possibly out of order).



+++{"lesson_part": "main"}




## Programming is Collaborative



There are two very common types of collaboration
- code review (working independently and then reviewing)
- pair programming (sitting together and discussing while writing)


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}


We are going to build your skill in the *code review* model.  This means you need to collaborate, but collaboration in school tends to be more stressful than it needs to. If students have different goals or motivation levels it can create conflict.  So there will be some chances for collaboration where people can show up at the level they want without impacting others.  

You can also do build badges collaboratively, for a closer collaboration, but those are your choice. 


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

## GitHub Actions Tab  

GitHub allows us to run scripts within our repos, the feature is called GitHub Actions and the individual items are called workflows.  

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}
![image](https://github.com/compsys-progtools/spring2025/blob/main/img/gh-actions.png)

*this should be different from yours, because I tested things in mine before making your PRs*

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

On my actions page, in the screenshot above, how many **successful workflow runs** are shown? 

- [ ] 4
- [ ] 5
- [x] 3

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

On my actions page, in the screenshot above, how many **total workflow runs** are shown? 

- [x] 4
- [ ] 5
- [ ] 3

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}
On my actions page, in the screenshot above, how many  workflows are **available to run**? 

- [ ] 4
- [x] 7
- [ ] 5

+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

Your time to practice:
1. Navigate to your actions tab
2. Run the "Create About (use only once)" Action. 




+++{"lesson_part": "site","meta_type":"evidence"}

You should have:
- fixed action files
- Labs issues closed
- experience report for 2025-01-23


## Prepare for next class 

```{include} ../_prepare/2025-01-30.md
```

## Badges

`````{tab-set}
````{tab-item} Review
```{include} ../_review/2025-01-28.md
```

````

````{tab-item} Practice
```{include} ../_practice/2025-01-28.md
```
````
`````


## Questions after class
